# HeartSprouts

HeartSprouts is a mobile application designed to help young adults foster and maintain genuine connections with friends and family amidst the demands of modern life. By leveraging the convenience of digital technology, our platform facilitates meaningful interactions, provides valuable insights, and offers timely reminders to prioritize relationships.

## Table of Contents
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Aim](#aim)
- [User Stories](#user-stories)
- [Features](#features)
- [Tech Stack](#tech-stack)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)

## Motivation
As two 21-year-old students, we understand the struggle of maintaining close, intentional, and loving relationships amidst the rapid digitalization of our world and changes in individual life priorities. We believe that building and maintaining connections with those closest to us is the key to personal growth, combating mental health struggles, and empowering us to take control of our social lives.

## Aim
Our aim is to create a mobile application that serves as a personal relationship companion for young adults, empowering them to foster and maintain genuine connections with friends and family amidst the demands of modern life.

## User Stories
- **Create Profiles**: As a young adult who wants to stay connected with my friends and family, I want to create profiles for each of my close relationships, including details like hobbies, birthdays, and important milestones.
- **Regular Communication**: As a young adult who values regular communication, I want to receive reminders to check in on my friends and family members.
- **Remember Important Dates**: As a young adult who tends to forget important dates, I want to receive reminders for birthdays, outings, and other significant events.
- **Weekly Reflection**: As a young adult who wants to deepen my understanding of my relationships, I want to receive weekly reflection prompts.
- **Social Outing Prep**: As a young adult preparing for a social outing, I want to receive a reminder with details about my friend.
- **Daily Inspiration**: As a young adult seeking inspiration, I want to receive a daily prompt encouraging intentional actions or conversations.

## Features
### Core Features
- **Create Profiles**: Maintain a digital "rolodex" of closest connections, with details like hobbies, events, and birthdays.
- **Weekly Reflection Prompts**: Encourage self-awareness and introspection with weekly prompts.
- **Reminders for Important Days**: Send reminders for birthdays, outings, and other milestones.
- **Reminders to Check In**: Gentle prompts to reach out and maintain regular communication.

### Extension Features
- **Check-in Streaks**: Gamify consistent communication, rewarding users for maintaining regular contact.
- **Outing Reminders**: Provide relevant information about friends for meaningful conversations.
- **Daily Prompts**: Offer daily prompts for intentional relationship-building.

## Tech Stack
- **React Native** (FrontEnd)
- **Node.js with Express.js** (BackEnd)
- **Firestore Database** (Database)
- **Firebase Authentication** (Authentication)
- **Firebase Cloud Messaging** (Cloud Services)
- **React Navigation** (UI Components and Navigation)
- **Git and GitHub** (Version Control)

## Installation
To get started with HeartSprouts, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/your-username/heart-sprouts.git
2. Navigate to the project directory:
    cd heart-sprouts
3. Install the dependencies:
    npm insall
4. Start the development server:
    npm start

## Usage
To use the application:

1. Ensure that you have the Expo Go app installed on your mobile device or have Android studio/Xcode installed on your computer
2. Scan the QR code generated by npm start to open the app on your device or use the phone simulator
3. Follow the on-screen instructions to navigate through the app
